
                               The _Plus_
                                  FOOD
                              For _Minus_
                                 MEALS




                     _Best_ FOR COOKING    Page 1 ⇒


                     _Best_ FOR MIXING    Page 13 ⇒


                    _Best_ AS A CEREAL    Page 16 ⇒


    [Illustration: ACCEPTED, AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. Committee on Foods]


           Serve More Complete Meals With Kellogg’s All-Bran

Perhaps the meals you serve are “bulk-minus” meals. Kellogg’s All-Bran
is the “bulk-plus” food so necessary in the well-balanced diet. Serve as
a cereal, combined with other cereals, or use it as an ingredient in
many tempting and economical dishes. ★ All the recipes in this helpful
folder have been triple tested in our Cottage Kitchen so that you may
get the fullest enjoyment from the use of All-Bran in your home. ★
Laboratory tests show (1) that All-Bran is a safe and gentle food that
relieves constipation due to insufficient “bulk”; (2) that it does not
lose its effectiveness with continued use; (3) that it is a good source
of iron and Vitamin B. ★ Kellogg’s All-Bran is accepted by the American
Medical Association Committee on Foods as a natural laxative food for
normal people.

             _Write Us for Additional Recipes and Leaflets_

                          {Barbara B. Brooks}
                       _Home Economics Department
                Kellogg Company, Battle Creek, Michigan_




                            BEST FOR COOKING


Kellogg’s All-Bran is an ideal ingredient for cooking. It blends well
with other ingredients because it is fine and soft and adds a tempting
nut-sweet flavor to the recipe. Remember, too, that this best of all
brans increases the value of each dish because of its abundant “bulk.”


ALL-BRAN MUFFINS

  2 tablespoons shortening
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 egg (well beaten)
  1 cup sour milk
  1 cup Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN
  1 cup flour
  1 teaspoon baking powder
  ½ teaspoon soda
  ½ teaspoon salt

  Note: If sweet milk is used instead of sour milk, omit the ½ teaspoon
  of soda and use 3 teaspoons baking powder. Raisins or dates may be
  added if desired. A small slice of apple, sprinkled with cinnamon and
  sugar, placed on top the muffin batter before baking, makes a
  delicious variation of the recipe.

Cream the shortening and sugar, add egg and sour milk. Add ALL-BRAN and
let soak until most of the moisture is taken up. Sift flour with baking
powder, soda and salt and add to first mixture, stirring only until
flour disappears. Fill greased muffin tins two-thirds full and bake in a
moderate oven (400° F.) for 20 to 25 minutes.

Yield: 8 large or 12 small muffins.

                                                 (_Illustrated on page 2_)

    [Illustration: Muffins]

    [Illustration: Nut bread]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


BANANA ALL-BRAN NUT BREAD

  ¼ cup shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  1 egg (well beaten)
  1 cup Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN
  1½ cups flour
  2 teaspoons baking powder
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon soda
  ½ cup chopped nut meats
  1½ cups mashed bananas
  2 tablespoons water
  1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Cream shortening and sugar well. Add egg and ALL-BRAN. Sift flour with
baking powder, salt, and soda. Mix nuts with flour and add alternately
with mashed bananas to which the water has been added. Stir in vanilla.
Pour into greased loaf tin. Let stand 30 minutes and bake in a moderate
oven (375° F.) one hour. Let cool before cutting.

Yield: 1 loaf (8½ by 4½ inches).

                                                 (_Illustrated on page 3_)

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


ALL-BRAN REFRIGERATOR GINGER SNAPS

  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup molasses
  ½ cup Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN
  2 cups flour
  1½ teaspoons ginger
  1½ teaspoons cinnamon
  1½ teaspoons soda
  ¼ teaspoon salt

Cream shortening and sugar. Add molasses and ALL-BRAN. Beat thoroughly.
Sift dry ingredients and combine with creamed mixture. Shape into a roll
about 1½ inches in diameter. Wrap in waxed paper and store in
refrigerator until firm. Slice very thin and bake on ungreased cookie
sheets about 10 minutes in a moderate oven (375° F.)

Yield: 50 cookies.

    [Illustration: Assorted Cookies]

    [Illustration: Date Bars]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


ALL-BRAN DATE BARS

  3 eggs
  1½ cups brown sugar
  ¾ cup flour
  ¾ powder
  ½ cup Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN
  1 cup nut meats (chopped)
  ½ cup dates (cut fine)

Beat the eggs until light, add the sugar and beat well. Add the flour
sifted with the baking powder. Add ALL-BRAN, nuts and dates. Spread the
mixture in a layer one-half inch thick in a greased shallow pan. Bake in
a moderate oven (375° F.) for about 20-30 minutes.

Remove from the oven and while warm, cut into squares or bars. Roll the
pieces in powdered sugar or serve as a pudding with whipped cream.

Yield: 24 bars—1 inch by 3 inches.

                                                 (_Illustrated on page 7_)

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


ALL-BRAN BROWN BREAD

  1 cup Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN
  1 cup sour milk
  ½ cup raisins
  1 tablespoon molasses
  ½ cup sugar
  1 cup flour
  1 teaspoon soda
  ¼ teaspoon salt

Mix together the ALL-BRAN, sour milk, and raisins, then add the
molasses, sugar, and flour which has been sifted with the soda and salt.

Put the mixture into a greased can, cover tightly, and steam for three
hours.

                                                (_Illustrated on page 10_)

    [Illustration: Brown bread]

    [Illustration: Refrigerator rolls]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


ALL-BRAN REFRIGERATOR ROLLS

  1 cup shortening
  1 cup boiling water
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 cup Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN
  1½ teaspoons salt
  2 eggs (well beaten)
  2 compressed yeast cakes
  1 cup lukewarm water
  6 cups flour or more (sifted before measuring)

Mix shortening, boiling water, sugar, ALL-BRAN and salt, stirring until
shortening is melted. Let stand until mixture is lukewarm. Add eggs and
yeast cakes softened in lukewarm water. Add flour. Beat thoroughly.
Cover bowl and place in refrigerator over night or until ready to use.
Form balls of the dough to fill muffin tins about half full. Let rise
two hours. Bake in hot oven (450° F.) about 20 minutes.

Yield: 3½ dozen small rolls.

  Note: Dough can be made into Parker House Rolls if desired.

                                                (_Illustrated on page 11_)




                            BEST FOR MIXING


The right foods are so important in keeping up family fitness. And the
responsibility is largely yours. Convert minus meals into complete meals
by mixing ALL-BRAN with other cereals, and with other ingredients in
making breads, waffles and cookies.


ALL-BRAN WAFFLES SUPREME

  2 eggs (separated)
  1½ cups sweet milk
  ¾ cup Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN
  1½ cups flour
  4 teaspoons baking powder
  1 teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons sugar
  ½ cup melted butter

Beat egg yolks slightly, add milk and ALL-BRAN and let soak while
sifting dry ingredients. Stir sifted dry ingredients into the liquid
mixture; add melted butter and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake
in a hot waffle iron until no steam is visible.

Yield: 6 waffles, 7 inches in diameter.

    [Illustration: All-Bran Waffle]

    [Illustration: Kellogg’s Corn Flakes with All-Bran]




                            BEST AS A CEREAL


The “bulk” content of Kellogg’s All-Bran is higher than that of any
other common food. It definitely corrects the “bulk-minus” meal—the most
frequent cause of constipation.

When common constipation due to “bulk-minus” meals does occur, your
family begins to feel under par—not exactly sick, but certainly not
well. Avoid this condition by serving All-Bran regularly for regularity.

Try All-Bran as a cereal with milk or cream—two tablespoons daily will
give you the “bulk-plus” meals so necessary in the well-balanced diet.
In chronic cases, with each meal. All-Bran is much more effective than
part-bran products. Sold by all grocers. Made by Kellogg in Battle
Creek, Michigan.

    [Illustration: For Sunny Living, Choose Any of These Delightful Ways
    to Use Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN]


—In muffins, breads or cookies

—As a cereal with milk or cream

—In waffles, with other cereals, or in salads


                      No. 514    Printed in U.S.A.

    [Illustration: QUALITY GUARANTEED]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

—Changed page references to page numbers rather than right/left/reverse
  page.







End of Project Gutenberg's The Plus Food for Minus Meals, by Anonymous

